And the serpent was more subtle than any animal of the field that YHWH Elohim had made, and it said to the woman, ‘Has the Divine indeed said: You shall not eat from any tree of the garden?’
And the woman said to the serpent, ‘We may eat from the fruit of the trees of the garden.’
But from the fruit of the tree that is in the middle of the garden, the Divine said: ‘You shall not eat from it, and you shall not touch it, lest you die.’
And the serpent said to the woman, ‘You will not die.’
For the Divine knows that in the day you eat from it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like the Divine, knowing good and evil.
And the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was desirable to the eyes, and that the tree was pleasant to make one wise; and she took from its fruit and ate, and she also gave to her partner who was with her, and he ate.
Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; so they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings for themselves.
Then they heard the voice of YHWH Elohim walking in the garden at the breeze of the day, and the human and his partner hid themselves from the presence of YHWH Elohim among the trees of the garden.
And YHWH Elohim called to the human and said to him, ‘Where are you?’
And he said, ‘I heard Your voice in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid myself.’
And [the Divine] said, ‘Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree which I commanded you not to eat from?’
And the human said, ‘The woman whom You gave to be with me—she gave me from the tree, and I ate.’
And YHWH Elohim said to the woman, ‘What is this you have done?’ And the woman said, ‘The serpent deceived me, and I ate.’
And YHWH Elohim said to the serpent, ‘Because you have done this, cursed are you more than all the livestock and more than every beast of the field; on your belly you will go, and dust you will eat all the days of your life.’
And I will place enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed; he will strike your head, and you will strike his heel.
To the woman [the Divine] said, ‘I will greatly multiply your pain and your conception; in pain you will bear children. Your desire will be for your partner, and he will rule over you.’
And to the human [the Divine] said, ‘Because you listened to the voice of your partner and ate from the tree which I commanded you, saying, “You shall not eat from it,” cursed is the ground because of you; in sorrow you will eat from it all the days of your life.’
And thorns and thistles it will cause to spring forth for you, and you will eat the herb of the field.
By the sweat of your face you will eat bread, until you return to the ground, because from it you were taken; for you are dust, and to dust you will return.
And the human called his partner’s name Chavah, because she became the mother of all living.
And YHWH Elohim made for the human and for his partner tunics of skin, and clothed them.
And YHWH Elohim said, ‘Behold, the human has become like one of us, to know good and evil. And now, lest he reach out his hand and also take from the tree of life, and eat, and live forever…’
So YHWH Elohim sent him out from the Garden of Eden, to serve the ground from which he had been taken.
“And [the Divine] drove out the human, and stationed at the east of the Garden of Eden the cherubim and the flame of the turning sword, to guard the path to the tree of life.
