In a field of origination, the Divine initiated the domain of Above and the domain of Below.
Now the earth existed in wild, uncollapsed potential, and darkness veiled the deep; the vibrating field of the Divine hovered upon the waters.
And the Divine declared, ‘Let light emerge,’ and light came into being.
And the Divine observed the light and saw that it was good; and the Divine separated the light from the darkness.
And the Divine named the light ‘Day,’ and the darkness ‘Night’; and there was evening and there was morning—one unified day.
And the Divine said, ‘Let there be a spread within the waters, and let it divide between waters and waters.’
And the Divine made the expanse, and it separated the waters beneath it from the waters above it—and it was so.
And the Divine named the expanse ‘Heavens’; and there was evening and there was morning—the second day.
And the Divine said, ‘Let the waters beneath the heavens be gathered into one place, and let the dry land appear.’ And it was so.
And the Divine called the dry land Earth, and the gathering of the waters the Divine called Seas; and the Divine saw that it was good.
And the Divine said, ‘Let the earth sprout vegetation—grass, herbs yielding seed, and fruit trees making fruit according to their kind, whose seed is in it, upon the earth.’ And it was so.
And the earth brought forth vegetation—grass, herbs yielding seed according to their kind, and trees making fruit, whose seed is in it, according to its kind. And the Divine saw that it was good.
And there was evening and there was morning, a third day.
And the Divine said, ‘Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate between the day and the night, and let them be for signs, and for appointed times, and for days and years.’
And let them be for lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth. And it was so.
And the Divine made the two great lights: the greater light to govern the day, and the lesser light to govern the night, and also the stars.
And the Divine placed them in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth.
To rule over the day and over the night, and to separate between the light and the darkness. And the Divine saw that it was good.
And there was evening and there was morning, a fourth day.
And the Divine said, ‘Let the waters swarm with swarming living beings, and let birds fly above the earth across the face of the expanse of the heavens.’
And the Divine created the great sea creatures and every living soul-being that moves, which the waters swarmed with, according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And the Divine saw that it was good.
And the Divine blessed them, saying, ‘Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let the birds multiply on the earth.’
And there was evening and there was morning, a fifth day.
And the Divine said, ‘Let the earth bring forth living soul-beings according to their kind—livestock, and creeping things, and wild beasts of the earth according to their kind.’ And it was so.
And the Divine made the wild animals of the earth according to their kind, and the livestock according to their kind, and every creeping thing of the ground according to its kind. And the Divine saw that it was good.
And the Divine said, ‘Let us make the human in our image, according to our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea, and the birds of the heavens, and the livestock, and all the earth, and all the creeping things that move upon the earth.’
And the Divine created the human in the Divine’s image; in the image of the Divine, the Divine created the human—male and female, the Divine created them.
And the Divine blessed them, and the Divine said to them, ‘Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it, and rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living creature that moves upon the earth.’
And the Divine said, ‘Behold, I have given to you every herb yielding seed that is upon the surface of all the earth, and every tree that has fruit yielding seed in it; to you it shall be for food.’
And to every animal of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that moves on the earth in which there is a living soul, I have given every green plant for food. And it was so.
And the Divine saw all that had been made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, a sixth day.
