And the human knew Chavah, his partner; and she conceived and gave birth to Cain. And she said, ‘I have acquired a man with the Divine.’
And she continued to give birth, to his brother Abel. And Abel became a shepherd of flocks, and Cain became one who worked the ground.
And after some days, Cain brought from the fruit of the ground an offering to the Divine.
And Abel also brought—from the firstborn of his flock, and from their fat portions. And the Divine regarded Abel and his offering.
But toward Cain and his offering, the Divine did not regard. And Cain became very angry, and his face fell.
And the Divine said to Cain, ‘Why are you angry? And why has your face fallen?’
If you do well, will there not be lifting? But if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door—its desire is toward you, but you may rule over it.
And Cain said to Abel his brother. And it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him.
And the Divine said to Cain, ‘Where is Abel your brother?’ And he said, ‘I do not know. Am I my brother’s keeper?’
And the Divine said, ‘What have you done? The voice of your brother’s bloods is crying out to me from the ground.’
And now, you are cursed from the ground which opened its mouth to receive your brother’s blood from your hand.
When you work the ground, it will no longer yield its strength to you. You will be a wanderer and a drifter on the land.
And Cain said to the Divine, ‘My iniquity is too great to bear.’
Behold, you have driven me out today from the face of the ground, and from Your presence I shall be hidden. I will be a wanderer and a drifter on the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me.
And the Divine said to him, ‘Therefore, whoever kills Cain, vengeance will be taken on them sevenfold.’ And the Divine placed a sign on Cain, so that anyone who found him would not strike him.
Then Cain went out from before the Divine and settled in the land of Nod, east of Eden.
And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and gave birth to Enoch. Then he was building a city, and he named the city after his son—Enoch.
And to Enoch was born Irad; and Irad fathered Mechuyael; and Mechuyael fathered Metushael; and Metushael fathered Lamech.
And Lamech took for himself two wives. The name of the one was Adah, and the name of the second was Zillah.
And Adah gave birth to Jabal; he was the father of those who dwell in tents and tend livestock.
And the name of his brother was Jubal; he was the father of all who play the lyre and the pipe.
And Zillah also gave birth to Tubal-cain, the forger of all who work bronze and iron. And the sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah.
And Lamech said to his wives, ‘Adah and Zillah, hear my voice; wives of Lamech, listen to my utterance. For I have killed a man for wounding me, and a boy for bruising me.’
For if Cain is avenged sevenfold, then Lamech seventy-sevenfold.
And Adam again knew his wife, and she gave birth to a son. She named him Seth, for the Divine has appointed for me another seed in place of Abel, for Cain had killed him.
And to Seth also a son was born, and he named him Enosh. Then it began to be that the name of YHWH was invoked.